#summary OpenPGM 2 : C Reference : Transport : pgm_transport_set_txw_secs()
#labels Phase-Implementation
#sidebar TOC2CReferenceTransport
_Function_
=== Declaration ===
<pre>
#include <pgm/pgm.h>

[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gboolean gboolean] *pgm_transport_set_txw_secs* (
	[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]`*`     transport,
	[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#guint guint]                secs
	);
</pre>

=== Purpose ===
Set send window size in seconds.

=== Remarks ===
The default setting in TIBCO Rendezvous is 60 seconds, SmartPGM is 35 seconds.  In high data rate environments, such as market data feeds common values are 5-10 seconds.

Microsoft PGM default window is 1428 seconds long.

=== Parameters ===
<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>transport</tt></td>
<td>The PGM transport object.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>secs</tt></td>
<td>Size of window in seconds.</td>
</tr>
</table>


=== Return Value ===
On success, returns <tt>[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Standard-Macros.html#TRUE--CAPS TRUE]</tt>.  On invalid parameter, returns <tt>[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Standard-Macros.html#FALSE--CAPS FALSE]</tt>.

=== Example ===
Create a 10 second reliability window with maximum data rate of 400,000 packets per second.

{{{
 pgm_transport_set_txw_max_rte (transport, 400*1000);
 pgm_transport_set_txw_secs (transport, 10);
}}}

=== See Also ===
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportSetTxwMaxRte pgm_transport_set_txw_max_rte()]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportSetRxwSecs pgm_transport_set_rxw_secs()]</tt><br>
  * [OpenPgm2CReferenceTransport Transport] in OpenPGM C Reference.

