#summary OpenPGM 2 : C Reference : pgm_transport_join_group()
#labels Phase-Implementation

_Function_
=== Declaration ===
<pre>
#include <pgm/pgm.h>

[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gboolean gboolean] *pgm_transport_join_group* (
	[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]`*`      transport,
	struct group_req`*`     gr,
	[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gsize gsize]                 len
);

[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gboolean gboolean] *pgm_transport_leave_group* (
	[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]`*`      transport,
	struct group_req`*`     gr,
	[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gsize gsize]                 len
);
</pre>

=== Purpose ===
The <tt>pgm_transport_join_group</tt> function joins a multicast group.

The <tt>pgm_transport_leave_group</tt> function leaves a previously joined multicast group.

=== Remarks ===
Use <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportBlockSource pgm_transport_block_source()]</tt> to ignore specific sources publishing to the joined multicast group.

=== Parameters ===

<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>transport</tt></td>
<td>The PGM transport object.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>gr</tt></td>
<td>Multicast group with optional interface.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>len</tt></td>
<td>Length of <tt>gr</tt> in bytes.</td>
</tr>
</table>

=== Return Value ===
On success, [http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Standard-Macros.html#TRUE--CAPS TRUE] is returned.  On error, [http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Standard-Macros.html#FALSE--CAPS FALSE] is returned.

=== Example ===
Add group 239.192.0.2 on default interface to transport.

{{{
 struct group_req gr;
 memset (&gr, 0, sizeof(gr));
 ((struct sockaddr*)&gr)->gr_group.sa_family = AF_INET;
 ((struct sockaddr_in*)&gr)->gr_group.sin_addr.s_addr = inet_addr("239.192.0.2");
 pgm_transport_join_group (transport, &gr, sizeof(gr));
}}}

=== See Also ===
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportBlockSource pgm_transport_block_source()]</tt><br>
  * [OpenPgm2CReferenceTransport Transport] in OpenPGM C Reference.
