''Function''
__NOTOC__
=== Declaration ===
<tt>#include <pgm/pgm.h></tt>

<tt>[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gsize gsize] '''pgm_transport_max_tsdu''' (</tt><br>
: <tt>[[OpenPGM C Reference/pgm_transport_t|pgm_tranport_t]]*     transport,</tt><br>
: <tt>[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gboolean gboolean]*              can_fragment</tt><br>
: <tt>);</tt>

=== Purpose ===
Get maximum TSDU, or packet payload size with or without fragmentation.

=== Remarks ===
The underlying transport handles packets sized to the maximum transmission protocol data unit (TPDU), when an application provides a larger APDU it will fragment the message into many packets which the receivers will reconstruct and present as a single data unit.  The maximum size available per packet for application payload varies depending whether it is part of a larger APDU.

=== Parameters ===

<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>transport</tt></td>
<td>PGM Transport.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>can_fragment</tt></td>
<td>Fragmented or non-fragmented packet.</td>
</tr>
</table>


=== Return Value ===
Returns the maximum TSDU size, or number of bytes available per packet as application payload.

=== Example ===
Send one zero-copy packet sized APDU.

 struct iovec vector = {
     .iov_base = pgm_packetv_alloc (transport, FALSE),
     .iov_len  = '''pgm_transport_max_tsdu''' (transport, FALSE)
 }
 pgm_transport_send_packetv (transport, vector, 1, 0, TRUE);

Send a 10 KB zero-copy sized APDU.

 gsize apdu_size = 10 * 1024;
 gsize tsdu_size = '''pgm_transport_max_tsdu''' (transport, TRUE);
 guint packets = apdu_size / tsdu_size;
 struct iovec vector[packets];
 for (guint i = 0; i < packets; i++) {
   vector[i].iov_base = pgm_packetv_alloc (transport, TRUE);
   vector[i].iov_len  = (i == (packets - 1)) ? (apdu_size % tsdu_size) : tsdu_size;
 }
 pgm_transport_send_packetv (transport, vector, packets, 0, TRUE);

=== See Also ===
<tt>[[OpenPGM C Reference/pgm_packetv_alloc()|pgm_packetv_alloc()]]</tt><br>
<tt>[[OpenPGM C Reference/pgm_transport_send_packetv()|pgm_transport_send_packetv()]]</tt>

