''Function''
__NOTOC__
=== Declaration ===
<tt>#include <pgm/pgm.h></tt>

<tt>[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gboolean gboolean] '''pgm_if_get_transport_info''' (</tt><br>
: <tt>const char*        network,</tt><br>
: <tt>struct [[2/OpenPGM_C_Reference/pgm_transport_info_t|pgm_transport_info_t]] const       *hints,</tt><br>
: <tt>struct [[2/OpenPGM_C_Reference/pgm_transport_info_t|pgm_transport_info_t]]       **res,</tt><br>
: <tt>[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Error-Reporting.html#GError GError]**             error</tt><br>
: <tt>);</tt>

<tt>void '''pgm_if_free_transport_info''' (</tt><br>
: <tt>struct [[2/OpenPGM_C_Reference/pgm_transport_info_t|pgm_transport_info_t]]       *res</tt><br>
: <tt>);</tt>


=== Purpose ===
Decompose a string network specification.

=== Remarks ===
The TIBCO Rendezvous network parameter provides a convenient compact representation of the complicated data structures needed to specify sending and receiving interfaces and multicast addresses.  This function provides conversion between the network string and the parameters of <tt>[[2/OpenPGM C Reference/pgm_transport_create()|pgm_transport_create()]]</tt>.

The returned <tt>[[2/OpenPGM_C_Reference/pgm_transport_info_t|pgm_transport_info_t]]</tt> must be freed with <tt>pgm_if_free_transport_info()</tt>.

=== Parameters ===

<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>network</tt></td>
<td>A TIBCO Rendezvous compatible network parameter string</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>hints</tt></td>
<td>Transport info structure whose <tt>ti_family</tt> specify criteria that limit the set of addresses returned by <tt>pgm_if_get_transport_info()</tt>.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>res</tt></td>
<td>return location for resolved transport info structure.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>error</tt></td>
<td>return location for error.</td>
</tr>
</table>


=== Return Value ===
On success, [http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Standard-Macros.html#TRUE--CAPS TRUE] is returned.  On failure, [http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Standard-Macros.html#FALSE--CAPS FALSE] is returned and if <tt>error</tt> is set it may be populated with details of the exception.

=== Example ===
Basic example using default hints.

 char* network = "eth0;226.0.0.1";
 struct pgm_transport_info_t* res = NULL;
 
 if (!'''pgm_if_get_transport_info''' (network, NULL, &res, &err)) {
   g_error ("parsing network parameter: %s", err->message);
   g_error_free (err);
   return EXIT_FAILURE;
 }

=== See Also ===
<tt>[[2/OpenPGM C Reference/pgm_transport_info_t|pgm_transport_info_t]]</tt><br>
<tt>[[2/OpenPGM C Reference/pgm_transport_create()|pgm_transport_create()]]</tt><br>
[[2/OpenPGM C Reference/Interface|Interface]] in OpenPGM C Reference.<br>
[[OpenPGM_Concepts/Transport|Transport]] in OpenPGM Concepts.

