''Function''
__NOTOC__
=== Declaration ===
<tt>#include <pgm/pgm.h></tt>

<tt>int '''pgm_transport_poll_info''' (</tt><br>
: <tt>[[OpenPGM C Reference/pgm_transport_t|pgm_transport_t]]*     transport,</tt><br>
: <tt>struct pollfd* fds,</tt>
: <tt>int* n_fds</tt>,<br>
: <tt>int events</tt><br>
: <tt>);</tt>

=== Purpose ===
Set parameters suitable for feeding into <tt>poll()</tt>.

=== Remarks ===
An assertion will be raised if insufficient file descriptors are provided.  1 file descriptor is required for basic <tt>POLLIN</tt> events, another is required if the transport has a receive channel (default configuration, or calling <tt>[[OpenPGM C Reference/pgm_transport_set_send_only()|pgm_transport_set_send_only()]]</tt> with <tt>FALSE</tt>).  1 file descriptor is required for basic <tt>POLLOUT</tt> events.

=== Parameters ===
<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>transport</tt></td>
<td>The PGM transport object.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>fds</tt></td>
<td>Array to store poll file descriptors.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>n_fds</tt></td>
<td>Length of <tt>fds</tt> array, and file descriptors used.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>events</tt></td>
<td>A bit set composed using the following available event types:
;<tt>POLLIN</tt>: The transport is available for <tt>recv()</tt> operations.
;<tt>POLLOUT</tt>: The transport is available for <tt>send()</tt> operations.</td>
</tr>
</table>


=== Return Value ===
On success, returns the number of <tt>pollfd</tt> event structures filled.  If the transport is closed, returns -1 and sets <tt>errno</tt> to <tt>EBADF</tt>. 

=== Example ===
Poll the PGM transport for incoming events.

 int nfds = IP_MAX_MEMBERSHIPS;
 struct pollfd fds[ IP_MAX_MEMBERSHIPS ];
 memset (fds, 0, sizeof(fds));
 '''pgm_transport_poll_info''' (transport, &fds, &nfds, POLLIN);
 poll (fds, nfds, 1000 /* ms */);

=== See Also ===
<tt>[[OpenPGM C Reference/pgm_transport_recv()|pgm_transport_recv()]]</tt>,<br>
<tt>[[OpenPGM C Reference/pgm_transport_set_send_only()|pgm_transport_set_send_only()]]</tt>

