#summary OpenPGM 3 : C Reference : Transport : pgm_transport_set_hops()
#labels Phase-Implementation
#sidebar TOC3CReferenceTransport
_Function_
=== Declaration ===
<pre>
#include <pgm/pgm.h>

bool *pgm_transport_set_hops* (
	[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]`*`     transport,
	unsigned                 hops
	);
</pre>

=== Purpose ===
Set maximum number of network hops to cross.

=== Remarks ===
In IPv4, time to live (TTL) is a limit to the number of network boundaries that a multicast packet may cross.  The purpose of TTL is to avoid a situation in which an undeliverable datagram keeps circulating on an internet system, with such a system eventually becoming swamped by such immortal datagrams.  In IPv6 to reflect common practice the TTL field is renamed to hop limit.

Several Cisco routers have a bug causing excessive CPU usage when publishing multicast with a default TTL value of 1, therefore the default value in TIBCO Rendezvous is 16.

=== Parameters ===
<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>transport</tt></td>
<td>The PGM transport object.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>hops</tt></td>
<td>Hop limit.</td>
</tr>
</table>


=== Return Value ===
On success, returns <tt>true</tt>.  On invalid parameter, returns <tt>false</tt>.

=== Example ===
{{{
 pgm_transport_set_hops (transport, 16);
}}}

=== See Also ===
  * <tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]</tt><br>
  * [OpenPgm3CReferenceTransport Transport] in OpenPGM C Reference.<br>
  * [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_to_live Time to live] in Wikipedia.
