#summary OpenPGM 5 : C Reference : Socket : pgm_poll_info()
#labels Phase-Implementation
#sidebar TOC5CReferenceSocket
_Function_
=== Declaration ===
<pre>
#define CONFIG_HAVE_POLL
#include <pgm/pgm.h>

int *pgm_poll_info* (
	[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmSockT pgm_sock_t]`*` const    sock,
	struct pollfd`*`       fds,
	int`*`                 nfds,
	int                  events
	);
</pre>

=== Purpose ===
Set parameters suitable for feeding into <tt>poll()</tt> or <tt>[http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms741669(v=vs.85).aspx WSAPoll()]</tt>.

=== Remarks ===
An assertion will be raised if insufficient file descriptors are provided.  1 file descriptor is required for basic <tt>POLLIN</tt> events, another is required if the transport has a receive channel (default configuration, or setting <tt>PGM_SEND_ONLY</tt> with <tt>false</tt>).  1 file descriptor is required for basic <tt>POLLOUT</tt> events.

=== Parameters ===

<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>sock</tt></td>
<td>The PGM socket object.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>fds</tt></td>
<td>Array to store poll file descriptors.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>n_fds</tt></td>
<td>Length of <tt>fds</tt> array, and file descriptors used.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>events</tt></td>
<td>A bit set composed using the following available event types:
<dl><dt><tt>POLLIN</tt></dt><dd>The transport is available for <tt>recv()</tt> operations.
</dd><dt><tt>POLLOUT</tt></dt><dd>The transport is available for <tt>send()</tt> operations.</dd></dl></td>
</tr>
</table>

=== Return Value ===
On success, returns the number of <tt>pollfd</tt> event structures filled.  If the transport is closed, returns -1 and sets <tt>errno</tt> to <tt>EBADF</tt>.

=== Example ===
Poll the PGM transport for incoming events.

{{{
 int nfds = IP_MAX_MEMBERSHIPS;
 struct pollfd fds[ IP_MAX_MEMBERSHIPS ];
 memset (fds, 0, sizeof (fds));
 pgm_poll_info (sock, &fds, &nfds, POLLIN);
 poll (fds, nfds, 1000 /* ms */);
}}}

Using <tt>WSAPoll()</tt> for non-blocking send on Windows,

{{{
 ULONG nfds = PGM_BUS_SOCKET_WRITE_COUNT;
 WSAPOLLFD fds[ PGM_BUS_SOCKET_WRITE_COUNT ];
 ZeroMemory (fds, sizeof (WSAPOLLFD) * n_fds);
 pgm_poll_info (sock, &fds, &nfds, POLLOUT);
 WSAPoll (fds, n_fds, 1000 /* ms */);
}}}

=== See Also ===
  * <tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmSockT pgm_sock_t]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmSelectInfo pgm_select_info()]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmEpollCtl pgm_epoll_ctl()]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms741669(v=vs.85).aspx WSAPoll()]</tt> in MSDN Library.<br>
  * [OpenPgm5CReferenceSocket Socket] in OpenPGM C Reference.
