#summary OpenPGM 2 : C Reference : Asynchronous Receiver
#labels Phase-Implementation
#sidebar TOC2CReference
=== Introduction ===
An asynchronous receiver is a transport that queues incoming messages for latter processing.

=== Topics in Alphabetical Order ===
<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Function or Type</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmAsyncT pgm_async_t]</tt></td>
<td>Object representing a transport asynchronous receiver.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmEventFnT pgm_eventfn_t]</tt></td>
<td>Callback function pointer for asynchronous events.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmAsyncCreate pgm_async_create()]</tt></td>
<td>Create an asynchronous event handler.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmAsyncDestroy pgm_async_destroy()]</tt></td>
<td>Destroy an asynchronous event handler.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmAsyncGetFd pgm_async_get_fd()]</tt></td>
<td>Retrieve file descriptor for event signalling.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmAsyncSetNonBlocking pgm_async_set_nonblocking()]</tt></td>
<td>Set asynchronous operation to blocking or non-blocking mode.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmAsyncAddWatch pgm_async_add_watch()]</tt></td>
<td>Add a transport event listener.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmAsyncAddWatch pgm_async_add_watch_full()]</tt></td>
<td>Add a transport event listener, and run a completion function when all of the destroyed event’s callback functions are complete.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmAsyncCreateWatch pgm_async_create_watch()]</tt></td>
<td>Create a transport event listener.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmAsyncRecv pgm_async_recv()]</tt></td>
<td>Synchronous receiving from an asynchronous queue.</td>
</tr>
</table>
