#summary OpenPGM 2 : C Reference : pgm_transport_set_nak_rdata_ivl()
#labels Phase-Implementation

_Function_
=== Declaration ===
<pre>
#include <pgm/pgm.h>

[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gboolean gboolean] *pgm_transport_set_nak_rdata_ivl* (
	[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]`*`     transport,
	[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#guint guint]      usec
	);
</pre>

=== Purpose ===
Set timeout for receiving RDATA.

=== Remarks ===
A receiver must suppress NAK generation and wait at least <tt>NAK_RDATA_IVL</tt> before recommencing NAK generation if it hears a matching NCF or NAK during <tt>NAK_RB_IVL</tt>.

SmartPGM uses a default of 2s, but can auto-tune from 20-2000ms depending on network conditions.  Microsoft PGM defaults to 4000ms.

=== Parameters ===
<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>transport</tt></td>
<td>The PGM transport object.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>usec</tt></td>
<td>Interval in microseconds.</td>
</tr>
</table>


=== Return Value ===
On success, returns <tt>[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Standard-Macros.html#TRUE--CAPS TRUE]</tt>.  On invalid parameter, returns <tt>[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Standard-Macros.html#FALSE--CAPS FALSE]</tt>.

=== Example ===
Set <tt>NAK_RDATA_IVL</tt> to 200ms.

{{{
 pgm_transport_set_nak_rdata_ivl (transport, 200*1000);
}}}

Set <tt>NAK_RDATA_IVL</tt> to 2 seconds, matching TIBCO Rendezvous over PGM.

{{{
 pgm_transport_set_nak_rpt_ivl (transport, 2*1000*1000);
}}}

=== See Also ===
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportSetNakBoIvl pgm_transport_set_nak_bo_ivl()]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportSetNakRptIvl pgm_transport_set_nak_rpt_ivl()]</tt><br>
  * [OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransport Transport] in OpenPGM C Reference.

