#summary OpenPGM : C Reference : pgm_print_tsi()
#labels Phase-Implementation

_Function_
=== Declaration ===
<pre>
#include <pgm/pgm.h>

#define PGM_TSISTRLEN (sizeof("000.000.000.000.000.000.00000"))

[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gchar gchar]`*` *pgm_tsi_print* (
	const [OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTsiT pgm_tsi_t]`*`    tsi
	);

[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gchar gchar]`*` *pgm_tsi_print_r* (
	const [OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTsiT pgm_tsi_t]`*`    tsi,
	char`*`               buf,
	size_t              bufsize
	);
</pre>

=== Purpose ===
Display a TSI in human friendly form.

=== Remarks ===
The globally unique transport session identifier (TSI) is composed of the concatenation of a globally unique source identifier (GSI) and a source-assigned data-source port.

<tt>pgm_print_tsi_r</tt> returns the same identifier in the array <tt>buf</tt> of size <tt>bufsize</tt>.

<tt>bufsize</tt> should be at least <tt>PGM_TSISTRLEN</tt> in length.


=== Parameters ===

<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>tsi</tt></td>
<td>Globally unique transport session identifier (TSI).</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>buf</tt></td>
<td>Buffer to store TSI.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>bufsize</tt></td>
<td>Length of buffer <tt>buf</tt>.</td>
</tr>
</table>


=== Return Value ===
On success, <tt>pgm_print_tsi</tt> returns a pointer to the TSI, and <tt>NULL</tt> on failure.  <tt>pgm_print_tsi_r</tt> returns 0 when successful, and <tt>-EINVAL</tt> on failure.

=== Example ===
Display TSI in non-re-entrant form.

{{{
 printf ("TSI: %s\n", pgm_print_tsi (&transport->tsi));
}}}

Display TSI in re-entrant form.

{{{
 char buf[PGM_TSISTRLEN];
 pgm_print_tsi_r (&transport->tsi, buf, sizeof(buf));
 printf ("TSI: %s\n", buf);
}}}

=== See Also ===
  * <tt>[OpenPgmCReferencePgmTsiT pgm_tsi_t]</tt><br>
  * [OpenPgmCReferenceTransport Transport] in OpenPGM C Reference.
