#summary OpenPGM 2 : C Reference : pgm_transport_block_source()
#labels Phase-Implementation

_Function_
=== Declaration ===
<pre>
#include <pgm/pgm.h>

[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gboolean gboolean] *pgm_transport_block_source* (
	[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]`*`    transport,
	struct group_source_req`*`     gsr,
	[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gsize gsize]     len
);

[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gboolean gboolean] *pgm_transport_unblock_source* (
	[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]`*`    transport,
	struct group_source_req`*`     gsr,
	[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gsize gsize]     len
);
</pre>

=== Purpose ===
The <tt>pgm_transport_block_source</tt> function turns off a given source.

The <tt>pgm_transport_unblock_source</tt> function re-allows a blocked source.

=== Parameters ===

<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>transport</tt></td>
<td>The PGM transport object.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>gsr</tt></td>
<td>Multicast group and source specification with optional interface.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>len</tt></td>
<td>Length of <tt>gr</tt> in bytes.</td>
</tr>
</table>

=== Return Value ===
On success, [http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Standard-Macros.html#TRUE--CAPS TRUE] is returned.  On error, [http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Standard-Macros.html#FALSE--CAPS FALSE] is returned.

=== Example ===
Blocks source 192.168.9.1, group 239.192.0.2 on default interface to transport.

{{{
 struct group_source_req gsr;
 memset (&gsr, 0, sizeof(gsr));
 ((struct sockaddr*)&gsr)->gsr_group.sa_family = AF_INET;
 ((struct sockaddr_in*)&gsr)->gsr_group.sin_addr.s_addr = inet_addr("239.192.0.2");
 ((struct sockaddr*)&gsr)->gsr_source.sa_family = AF_INET;
 ((struct sockaddr_in*)&gsr)->gsr_source.sin_addr.s_addr = inet_addr("192.168.9.1");
 pgm_transport_block_source (transport, &gsr, sizeof(gsr));
}}}

=== See Also ===
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportJoinGroup pgm_transport_join_group()]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportJoinSourceGroup pgm_transport_join_source_group()]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportMsFilter pgm_transport_msfilter()]</tt><br>
  * [OpenPgm2CReferenceTransport Transport] in OpenPGM C Reference.
