#summary OpenPGM 5 : C Reference : Socket
#labels Phase-Implementation
#sidebar TOC5CReferenceSocket
=== Introduction ===
PGM Sockets manage network connections and send outbound messages.

=== Topics in Alphabetical Order ===
<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Function or Type</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="2"><h3>GSI API</h3></td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmGsiT pgm_gsi_t]</tt></td>
<td>Object representing a GSI.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmGsiCreateFromAddr pgm_gsi_create_from_addr()]</tt></td>
<td>Create a GSI based on IPv4 host address.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmGsiCreateFromHostname pgm_gsi_create_from_hostname()]</tt></td>
<td>Create a GSI based on MD5 of system host name.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmGsiCreateFromString pgm_gsi_create_from_string()]</tt></td>
<td>Create a GSI based on MD5 of a text string.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmGsiCreateFromData pgm_gsi_create_from_data()]</tt></td>
<td>Create a GSI based on MD5 of a data buffer.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmGsiPrint pgm_gsi_print()]</tt></td>
<td>Display a GSI in human friendly form.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmGsiPrint pgm_gsi_print_r()]</tt></td>
<td>Display a GSI in human friendly form, re-entrant form.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmGsiEqual pgm_gsi_equal()]</tt></td>
<td>Compare two GSI values.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td colspan="2"><h3>TSI API</h3></td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmTsiT pgm_tsi_t]</tt></td>
<td>Object representing a TSI.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmTsiPrint pgm_tsi_print()]</tt></td>
<td>Display a TSI in human friendly form.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmTsiPrint pgm_tsi_print_r()]</tt></td>
<td>Display a TSI in human friendly form, re-entrant version.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmTsiEqual pgm_tsi_equal()]</tt></td>
<td>Compare two TSI values.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td colspan="2"><h3>Socket API</h3></td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmIoStatus PGMIOStatus]</tt></td>
<td>Return status for PGM IO functions.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmIoVec pgm_iovec]</tt></td>
<td>A scatter/gather message vector.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmMsgvT pgm_msgv_t]</tt></td>
<td>A scatter/gather message vector^2^.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmFecInfoT pgm_fecinfo_t]</tt></td>
<td>Settings for forward error correction (FEC).</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmSockT pgm_sock_t]</tt></td>
<td>A PGM socket object represents a delivery mechanism for messages.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmSockAddrT pgm_sockaddr_t]</tt></td>
<td>PGM endpoint address.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmRecv pgm_recv()]</tt></td>
<td>Receive a message from the PGM socket.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmRecv pgm_recvfrom()]</tt></td>
<td>Receive a message from the PGM socket saving source address.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmRecv pgm_recvmsg()]</tt></td>
<td>Receive a message from the PGM socket with scatter/gather vector buffers.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmRecvMsgv pgm_recvmsgv()]</tt></td>
<td>Receive a message vector from the PGM socket with scatter/gather vector buffers.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmSend pgm_send()]</tt></td>
<td>Send a message.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmSendv pgm_sendv()]</tt></td>
<td>Send a vector of messages.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmSendSkbv pgm_send_skbv()]</tt></td>
<td>Zero-copy send a vector of PGM skbuffs.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmBind pgm_bind()]</tt></td>
<td>Bind a PGM socket to the specified network devices.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmConnect pgm_connect()]</tt></td>
<td>Initiate a PGM socket connection.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmSocket pgm_socket()]</tt></td>
<td>Create a PGM socket.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmClose pgm_close()]</tt></td>
<td>Close a PGM socket.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmGetSockOpt pgm_getsockopt()]</tt></td>
<td>Get a PGM socket option.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmGetSockOpt pgm_setsockopt()]</tt></td>
<td>Set a PGM socket option.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmGetSockName pgm_getsockname()]</tt></td>
<td>Get the PGM socket name.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmSelectInfo pgm_select_info()]</tt></td>
<td>Set parameters suitable for feeding into <tt>select()</tt>.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmPollInfo pgm_poll_info()]</tt></td>
<td>Set parameters suitable for feeding into <tt>poll()</tt>.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmEpollCtl pgm_epoll_ctl()]</tt></td>
<td>Fill <tt>epoll_event</tt> parameters in preparation for <tt>epoll_wait()</tt>.</td>
</tr>
</table>

