#summary OpenPGM : C Reference : pgm_transport_bind()
#labels Phase-Implementation

_Function_
=== Declaration ===
<pre>
#include <pgm/pgm.h>

int *pgm_transport_bind* (
	[OpenPgmCReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]`*` const    transport
	);
</pre>

=== Purpose ===
Bind a transport to the specified network devices.

=== Remarks ===
Assigns local addresses to the PGM transport sockets which will initiate delivery of reconstructed messages to the asynchronous queue and its associated dispatcher threads.

=== Parameters ===

<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>transport</tt></td>
<td>The PGM transport object.</td>
</tr>
</table>


=== Return Value ===
On success, returns 0.  If <tt>transport</tt> is invalid or already bound, returns <tt>-EINVAL</tt>.  On error, returns -1 and sets <tt>errno</tt> appropriately, or if the local interface cannot be resolved, -2 is returned <tt>h_errno</tt> set appropriately.

=== Errors ===
The variable <tt>errno</tt> can have the following values:

<dl><dt><tt>EACCES</tt><dt><dd>The address is protected, and the user is not the superuser.
</dd><dt><tt>EADDRINUSE</tt><dt><dd>The given address is already in use.
</dd><dt><tt>EADDRNOTAVAIL</tt><dt><dd>Unknown multicast group address passed.
</dd><dt><tt>EMFILE</tt><dt><dd>Too many file descriptors are in use by the process.
</dd><dt><tt>ENFILE</tt><dt><dd>The system limit on the total number of open files has been reached.
The variable <tt>h_errno</tt> can have the following values:
</dd><dt><tt>HOST_NOT_FOUND</tt><dt><dd>The specified host is unknown.
</dd><dt><tt>NO_ADDRESS</tt> or <tt>NO_DATA</tt><dt><dd>The requested name is valid but does not have an IP address.
</dd><dt><tt>NO_RECOVERY</tt><dt><dd>A non-recoverable name server error occurred.
</dd><dt><tt>TRY_AGAIN</tt><dt><dd>A temporary error occurred on an authoritative name server.  Try again later.
</dd></dl>

=== See Also ===
  * <tt>[OpenPgmCReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgmCReferencePgmTransportCreate pgm_transport_create()]</tt><br>
  * [OpenPgmCReferenceTransport Transport] in OpenPGM C Reference.
