''Function''
__NOTOC__
=== Declaration ===
<tt>#include <pgm/pgm.h></tt>

<tt>[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gboolean gboolean] '''pgm_transport_set_hops''' (</tt><br>
: <tt>[[2/OpenPGM C Reference/pgm_transport_t|pgm_transport_t]]*     transport,</tt><br>
: <tt>[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gint gint]                      hops</tt><br>
: <tt>);</tt>

=== Purpose ===
Set maximum number of network hops to cross.

=== Remarks ===
In IPv4, time to live (TTL) is a limit to the number of network boundaries that a multicast packet may cross.  The purpose of TTL is to avoid a situation in which an undeliverable datagram keeps circulating on an internet system, with such a system eventually becoming swamped by such immortal datagrams.  In IPv6 to reflect common practice the TTL field is renamed to hop limit.

Several Cisco routers have a bug causing excessive CPU usage when publishing multicast with a default TTL value of 1, therefore the default value in TIBCO Rendezvous is 16.

=== Parameters ===
<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>transport</tt></td>
<td>The PGM transport object.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>hops</tt></td>
<td>Hop limit.</td>
</tr>
</table>


=== Return Value ===
On success, returns <tt>[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Standard-Macros.html#TRUE--CAPS TRUE]</tt>.  On invalid parameter, returns <tt>[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Standard-Macros.html#FALSE--CAPS FALSE]</tt>.

=== Example ===

 '''pgm_transport_set_hops''' (transport, 16);

=== See Also ===
<tt>[[OpenPGM C Reference/pgm_transport_t|pgm_transport_t]]</tt><br>
[[2/OpenPGM C Reference/Transport|Transport]] in OpenPGM C Reference.<br>
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_to_live Time to live] in Wikipedia.
