#summary OpenPGM 3 : C Reference : Environment
#labels Phase-Implementation
#sidebar TOC3CReferenceEnvironment
=== Introduction ===
This section describes the functions relating to the global dependencies of OpenPGM.

=== Topics in Alphabetical Order ===

<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Function or Type</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferenceErrorHandling PGM_MIN_LOG_LEVEL]</tt></td>
<td>Minimum log level.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferenceErrorHandling PGM_LOG_MASK]</tt></td>
<td>Trace role mask for PGM logging.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>PGM_LOSS_RATE</tt></td>
<td>Simulated packet loss rate.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>PGM_DEBUG</tt></td>
<td>Debugging and memory profiling options.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferenceRunWithTheseCapabilities PGM_TIMER]</tt></td>
<td>Timing source device.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferenceRunWithTheseCapabilities RDTSC_FREQUENCY]</tt></td>
<td>Frequency of system TSC.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmInit pgm_init()]</tt></td>
<td>Start the PGM environment.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmSupported pgm_supported()]</tt></td>
<td>Check whether PGM engine initiated.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmDropSuperUser pgm_drop_superuser()]</tt></td>
<td>Drop superuser privileges, on Unix platforms, needed to create PGM protocol sockets.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmShutdown pgm_shutdown()]</tt></td>
<td>Shutdown the PGM environment.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmCheckVersion pgm_major_version]</tt></td>
<td>Major version number of OpenPGM.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmCheckVersion pgm_minor_version]</tt></td>
<td>Minor version number of OpenPGM.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmCheckVersion pgm_micro_version]</tt></td>
<td>Micro version number of OpenPGM.</td>
</tr>
</table>
