''Function''
__NOTOC__
=== Declaration ===
<tt>#include <pgm/pgm.h></tt>

<tt>[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gboolean gboolean] '''pgm_transport_set_nak_bo_ivl''' (</tt><br>
: <tt>[[2/OpenPGM C Reference/pgm_transport_t|pgm_transport_t]]*     transport,</tt><br>
: <tt>[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#guint guint]                     usec</tt><br>
: <tt>);</tt>

=== Purpose ===
Set NAK transmit back-off interval.

=== Remarks ===
Before transmitting a NAK, a receiver must wait some interval <tt>NAK_RB_IVL</tt> chosen randomly over some time period <tt>NAK_BO_IVL</tt>.  During this period, receipt of a matching NAK or a matching NCF will suspend NAK generation.  <tt>NAK_RB_IVL</tt> is counted down from the time a missing data packet is detected.  During <tt>NAK_RB_IVL</tt> a NAK is said to be pending.

The NAK back-off interval is a procedure intended to prevent NAK implosion and to limit its extent in the case of the loss of all or part of the suppressing multicast distribution tree.

SmartPGM uses a default of 500ms, Microsoft PGM uses a default of 600ms.

=== Parameters ===
<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>transport</tt></td>
<td>The PGM transport object.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>usec</tt></td>
<td>Interval in microseconds.</td>
</tr>
</table>


=== Return Value ===
On success, returns <tt>[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Standard-Macros.html#TRUE--CAPS TRUE]</tt>.  On invalid parameter, returns <tt>[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Standard-Macros.html#FALSE--CAPS FALSE]</tt>.

=== Example ===
Set <tt>NAK_BO_IVL</tt> to 50ms, same as TIBCO Rendezvous.

 '''pgm_transport_set_nak_bo_ivl''' (transport, 50*1000);

=== See Also ===
<tt>[[2/OpenPGM C Reference/pgm_transport_t|pgm_transport_t]]</tt><br>
<tt>[[2/OpenPGM C Reference/pgm_transport_set_nak_rpt_ivl()|pgm_transport_set_nak_rpt_ivl()]]</tt><br>
<tt>[[2/OpenPGM C Reference/pgm_transport_set_nak_rdata_ivl()|pgm_transport_set_nak_rdata_ivl()]]</tt><br>
[[2/OpenPGM C Reference/Transport|Transport]] in OpenPGM C Reference.

