#summary OpenPGM 2 : C Reference : Transport : pgm_transport_set_fec()
#labels Phase-Implementation
#sidebar TOC2CReferenceTransport
_Function_
=== Declaration ===
<pre>
#include <pgm/pgm.h>

[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gboolean gboolean] *pgm_transport_set_fec* (
	[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]`*`     transport,
	[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gboolean gboolean]             use_proactive_parity,
	[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gboolean gboolean]             use_ondemand_parity,
	[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gboolean gboolean]             use_varpkt_len,
	[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#guint guint]                default_n,
	[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#guint guint]                default_k
	);
</pre>

=== Purpose ===
Set and enable Forward Error Correction parameters.

=== Remarks ===
To send parity encoded APDUs you will most likely require variable length packets and so must set the <tt>use_varpkt_len</tt> parameter to <tt>[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Standard-Macros.html#TRUE--CAPS TRUE]</tt>.

=== Parameters ===
<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>transport</tt></td>
<td>The PGM transport object.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>use_proactive_parity</tt></td>
<td>Enable proactive parity generation.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>use_ondemand_parity</tt></td>
<td>Enable on-demand (reactive) parity generation.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>use_varpkt_len</tt></td>
<td>Packet sizes will vary within a transmission block.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>default_n</tt></td>
<td>Transmission group size.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>default_k</tt></td>
<td>Transmission block size.</td>
</tr>
</table>


=== Return Value ===
On success, returns <tt>[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Standard-Macros.html#TRUE--CAPS TRUE]</tt>.  On invalid parameter, returns <tt>[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Standard-Macros.html#FALSE--CAPS FALSE]</tt>.

=== Example ===
{{{
 pgm_transport_set_fec (transport, FALSE, TRUE, TRUE, 255, 4);
}}}

=== See Also ===
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]</tt><br>
  * [OpenPgm2CReferenceTransport Transport] in OpenPGM C Reference.
