#summary OpenPGM : C Reference : pgm_async_recv()
#labels Phase-Implementation

_Function_
=== Declaration ===
<pre>
#include <pgm/pgm.h>

[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gssize gssize] *pgm_async_recv* (
	[OpenPgmCReferencePgmAsyncT pgm_async_t]`*` const    async,
	const [http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gpointer gpointer]        buf,
	[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gsize gsize]                 len,
	int                   flags
);
</pre>

=== Purpose ===
Receive an Application Protocol Domain Unit (APDU) from an asynchronous queue.

=== Remarks ===
<tt>pgm_async_recv()</tt> fills the provided buffer location with up to <tt>len</tt> contiguous APDU bytes  therefore the buffer should be large enough to store the largest APDU expected.

=== Parameters ===

<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>async</tt></td>
<td>The asynchronous receiver object.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>buf</tt></td>
<td>Data buffer to fill.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>len</tt></td>
<td>Length of <tt>buf</tt> in bytes.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>flags</tt></td>
<td>Bitwise OR of zero or more flags: <tt>MSG_DONTWAIT</tt> enabling non-blocking operation.</td>
</tr>
</table>


=== Return Value ===
On success, the number of bytes read from the queue is returned (zero indicates an empty message).  On invalid arguments, <tt>-EINVAL</tt> is returned.  On error, -1 is returned, and <tt>errno</tt> is set appropriately.

=== Errors ===
<dl><dt><tt>EAGAIN</tt></dt><dd>The socket is marked non-blocking and the operation would block.
</dd></dl>

=== Example ===
Receive an APDU up to 4096 bytes in length.

{{{
 gchar buf[4096];
 int bytes_read = pgm_async_recv (async, buf, sizeof(buf), 0);
}}}

=== See Also ===
  * <tt>[OpenPgmCReferencePgmAsyncT pgm_async_t]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgmCReferencePgmTransportRecv pgm_transport_recv()]</tt><br>
  * [OpenPgmCReferenceTransport Transport] in OpenPGM C Reference.

