#summary OpenPGM 5 : C Reference : Socket: pgm_gsi_create_from_addr()
#labels Phase-Implementation
#sidebar TOC5CReferenceSocket
_Function_
=== Declaration ===
<pre>
#include <pgm/pgm.h>

bool *pgm_gsi_create_from_addr* (
	[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmGsiT pgm_gsi_t]`*`        gsi,
	[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmErrorT pgm_error_t]`*``*`     error
	);
</pre>

=== Purpose ===
Create a GSI based on the nodes IPv4 address.

=== Remarks ===
A globally unique source identifier (GSI) is required for PGM to track the sending state of peers.  This function generates a GSI compatible with TIBCO Rendezvous which combines the four octets of the host IP address with a random number.  The random number is to help indicate if a process has been restarted as the transmit window is no longer valid.

The GSI is specified when binding a new PGM transport with <tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmBind pgm_bind()]</tt>.

=== Parameters ===

<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>gsi</tt></td>
<td>A pointer to the GSI provided by the application that the function will fill.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>error</tt></td>
<td>a return location for a <tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmErrorT pgm_error_t]</tt>, or <tt>NULL</tt>.</td>
</tr>
</table>

=== Return Value ===
On success, <tt>true</tt> is returned.  On error, <tt>false</tt> is returned.  If <tt>error</tt> is provided it may be set detailing the fault.


=== Errors ===

*PGM_ERROR_DOMAIN_IF,*
  * _"Resolving hostname: %s"_
    * Platform specific error.


=== Example ===
Basic usage without error handling.

{{{
 pgm_gsi_t gsi;
 pgm_gsi_create_from_addr (&gsi, NULL);
}}}

Display an error message detailing failure.

{{{
 pgm_gsi_t gsi;
 pgm_error_t *err = NULL;
 if (!pgm_gsi_create_from_addr (&gsi, &err)) {
   fprintf (stderr, "GSI failed: %s\n",
            (err && err->message) ? err->message : "(null)");
   pgm_error_free (err);
   return EXIT_FAILURE;
 }
}}}

=== See Also ===
  * <tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmGsiT pgm_gsi_t]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmErrorT pgm_error_t]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmGsiCreateFromHostname pgm_gsi_create_from_hostname()]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmBind pgm_bind()]</tt><br>
  * [OpenPgm5CReferenceSocket Socket] in OpenPGM C Reference.