#summary OpenPGM 3 : C Reference : Build Library : GCC 4 on FreeBSD 8.0
#labels Phase-Implementation
#sidebar TOC3CReferenceProgrammersChecklist
=== Building with GCC for FreeBSD 8.0 ===
First install SCons and Subversion, you may wish to install <tt>sudo</tt> for convenience first.
<pre>
 $ *sudo pkg_add -r scons* 
 $ *sudo pkg_add -r subversion* 
</pre>
Checkout the repository as per the [http://code.google.com/p/openpgm/source/checkout Subversion guide].
<pre>
 $ *svn checkout -r 948 http://openpgm.googlecode.com/svn/trunk * 
</pre>
Build.
<pre>
 $ *cd trunk/openpgm/pgm* 
 $ *scons -f SConstruct.FreeBSD80* 
</pre>
By default SCons is configured to build a debug tree in <tt>./ref/debug-FreeBSD-amd64</tt> or <tt>./ref/debug-FreeBSD-i686</tt> dependent upon your machine.

To build the release version in <tt>./ref/release-FreeBSD-amd64</tt> use the following:
<pre>
 $ *scons -f SConstruct.FreeBSD80 BUILD=release*
</pre>

==== Testing ====
Testing must be performed with the pure examples unless GLib is installed.  Default configuration will use the TSC and it is recommended to set the environment variable <tt>RDTSC_FREQUENCY</tt> to accelerate startup.
<pre>
 $ *RDTSC_FREQUENCY=3200 ./ref/debug-FreeBSD-amd64/examples/purinrecv -lp 7500 -n "bge0;239.192.0.1"* 
プリン プリン
Create transport.
Startup complete.
Entering PGM message loop ... 
</pre>
Then send a few messages, for example from a Linux host,
<pre>
 $ *./ref/debug-Linux-x86_64/examples/purinsend  -lp 7500 -n "eth0;239.192.0.1" purin purin*
</pre>
And witness the receiver processing the incoming messages.
<pre>
"purin" (6 bytes from 170.29.65.155.237.36.57140)
"purin" (6 bytes from 170.29.65.155.237.36.57140)
</pre>