#summary OpenPGM 2 C Reference : pgm_gsi_create_from_string()
#labels Phase-Implementation

_Function_
=== Declaration ===
<pre>
#include <pgm/pgm.h>

[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gboolean gboolean] *pgm_gsi_create_from_string* (
	[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmGsiT pgm_gsi_t]`*`    gsi,
	const [http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gchar gchar]`*`  str,
	[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gssize gssize]        length,
	);
</pre>

=== Purpose ===
Create a GSI based on MD5 of provided string.

=== Parameters ===

<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>gsi</tt></td>
<td>A pointer to the GSI provided by the application that the function will fill.</td>
</tr><td>
<td><tt>str</tt></td>
<td>Text string.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>length</tt></td>
<td>Length of <tt>str</tt>, or 0 for NULL terminated string.</td>
</tr>
</table>


=== Return Value ===
On success, [http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Standard-Macros.html#TRUE--CAPS TRUE] is returned.  On error, [http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Standard-Macros.html#FALSE--CAPS FALSE] is returned.  If <tt>error</tt> is provided it may be set detailing the fault.

=== Example ===
{{{
 pgm_gsi_t gsi;
 GError *err = NULL;
 if (!pgm_gsi_create_from_string (&gsi, "29 Acacia Road", 0)) {
   g_message ("GSI failed: %s", err->message);
   g_error_free (err);
   return EXIT_FAILURE;
 }
}}}

=== See Also ===
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmGsiT pgm_gsi_t]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmGsiCreateFromAddr pgm_gsi_create_from_addr()]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmGsiCreateFromHostname pgm_gsi_create_from_hostname()]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportCreate pgm_transport_create()]</tt><br>
  * [OpenPgm2CReferenceTransport Transport] in OpenPGM C Reference.
