#summary OpenPGM 5 : C Reference : Socket : pgm_send()
#labels Phase-Implementation
#sidebar TOC5CReferenceSocket
_Function_
=== Declaration ===
<pre>
#include <pgm/pgm.h>

int *pgm_send* (
	[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmSocketT pgm_sock_t]`*` const    sock,
	const void`*`             buf,
	size_t                     len,
	size_t`*`                    bytes_written
);
</pre>

=== Purpose ===
Send an Application Protocol Data Unit (APDU) to the network.

=== Remarks ===
The underlying transport handles packets sized to the maximum transmission protocol data unit (TPDU), when an application provides a larger APDU it will fragment the message into many packets which the receivers will reconstruct and present as a single data unit.

A would be blocked operation might have sent one or more transmission data units.  The context is saved internally but subsequent call should be either <tt>pgm_send()</tt> with the exact same parameters, or <tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmClose pgm_close()]</tt>.  Put another way: in a multi-threaded application a locking mechanism should be implemented to prevent another thread trying to send a different application data unit.

=== Parameters ===

<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>sock</tt></td>
<td>The PGM socket object.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>buf</tt></td>
<td>Data buffer to fill.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>len</tt></td>
<td>Length of <tt>buf</tt> in bytes.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>bytes_written</tt></td>
<td>Pointer to store count of bytes written from <tt>buf</tt>.</td>
</tr>
</table>

=== Return Value ===
On success, returns <tt>PGM_IO_STATUS_NORMAL</tt>, on error returns <tt>PGM_IO_STATUS_ERROR</tt>, on reset due to unrecoverable data loss, returns <tt>PGM_IO_STATUS_RESET</tt>.  If the transport is marked non-blocking then <tt>PGM_IO_STATUS_WOULD_BLOCK</tt> is returned if the operation would block, if the block would be caused by the rate limiting engine then <tt>PGM_IO_STATUS_RATE_LIMITED</tt> is returned instead.

If PGMCC is enabled and congestion occurs <tt>PGM_IO_STATUS_CONGESTION</tt> is returned, the application should wait on notification from the ACK channel before re-attempting to send.

=== Example ===
Send the traditional "Hello world" with terminating NULL.

{{{
 char* s = "hello world!";
 size_t bytes_written;
 pgm_send (sock, s, strlen(s) + 1, &bytes_written);
}}}

Basic non-blocking send.

{{{
 char* s = "hello world!";
 size_t len = strlen (s) + 1;
 int status;
 do {
   status = pgm_send (sock, s, len, NULL);
 } while (PGM_IO_STATUS_WOULD_BLOCK == status ||
          PGM_IO_STATUS_RATE_LIMITED == status);
}}}

=== See Also ===
  * <tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmIoStatus PGMIOStatus]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmSockT pgm_sock_t]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm5CReferencePgmSendv pgm_sendv()]</tt><br>
  * [OpenPgm5CReferenceSocket Socket] in OpenPGM C Reference.
