#summary OpenPGM 2 : C Reference : pgm_gsi_print()
#labels Phase-Implementation

_Function_
=== Declaration ===
<pre>
#include <pgm/pgm.h>

#define PGM_GSISTRLEN	 (sizeof("000.000.000.000.000.000"))

[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gchar gchar]`*` *pgm_gsi_print* (
	const [OpenPgm2CReferencePgmGsiT pgm_gsi_t]`*`    gsi
);

[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gchar gchar]`*` *pgm_gsi_print_r* (
	const [OpenPgm2CReferencePgmGsiT pgm_gsi_t]`*`    gsi,
	char`*`     buf,
	size_t     bufsize
);
</pre>

=== Purpose ===
Display a GSI in human friendly form.

=== Remarks ===
<tt>pgm_gsi_print_r</tt> returns the same identifier in the array <tt>buf</tt> of size <tt>bufsize</tt>.

<tt>bufsize</tt> should be at least <tt>PGM_GSISTRLEN</tt> in length

=== Parameters ===

<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>gsi</tt></td>
<td>Globally unique session identifier (GSI).</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>buf</tt></td>
<td>Buffer to store GSI.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>bufsize</tt></td>
<td>Length of buffer <tt>buf</tt>.</td><td>Globally unique session identifier (GSI).</td>
</tr>
</table>

=== Return Value ===
On success, <tt>pgm_gsi_print</tt> returns a pointer to the GSI, and <tt>NULL</tt> on failure.  <tt>pgm_gsi_print_r</tt> returns 0 when successful, and <tt>-EINVAL</tt> on failure.

=== Example ===
Display MD5 and IPv4 versions of GSI for the host.

{{{
 pgm_gsi_t gsi;
 pgm_gsi_create_from_hostname (&gsi, NULL);
 printf ("MD5 GSI: %s\n", pgm_gsi_print (&gsi));
 pgm_gsi_create_from_addr (&gsi, NULL);
 printf ("IPv4 GSI: %s\n", pgm_gsi_print (&gsi));
}}}

Display MD5 GSI using re-entrant version <tt>pgm_gsi_print_r</tt>.

{{{
 pgm_gsi_t gsi;
 char buf[PGM_GSISTRLEN];
 pgm_gsi_create_from_hostname (&gsi, NULL);
 pgm_gsi_print_r (&gsi, buf, sizeof(buf));
 printf ("MD5 GSI: %s\n", buf);
}}}

=== See Also ===
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmGsiT pgm_gsi_t]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmGsiCreateFromAddr pgm_gsi_create_from_addr()]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmGsiCreateFromHostname pgm_gsi_create_from_hostname()]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportCreate pgm_transport_create()]</tt><br>
  * [OpenPgm2CReferenceTransport Transport] in OpenPGM C Reference.
