#summary OpenPGM 2 : C Reference : pgm_transport_epoll_ctl()
#labels Phase-Implementation

_Function_
=== Declaration ===
<pre>
#define CONFIG_HAVE_EPOLL
#include <pgm/pgm.h>

int *pgm_transport_epoll_ctl* (
	[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]`*` const    transport,
	int                       epfd,
	int                       op,
	int                       events
	);
</pre>

=== Purpose ===
Set parameters suitable for using with <tt>epoll_wait()</tt>.

=== Remarks ===
An Edge Triggered event signals the transition to a rising edge (0 to 1).  In simple terms, the start of a series of incoming events.  Data should be read until <tt>EAGAIN</tt> is returned before the next Edge Triggered event will occur.

=== Parameters ===

<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>transport</tt></td>
<td>The PGM transport object.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>epfd</tt></td>
<td>epoll file descriptor.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>op</tt></td>
<td>Operation, must be <tt>EPOLL_CTL_ADD</tt>.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>events</tt></td>
<td>A bit set composed using the following available event types:
<dl><dt><tt>EPOLLIN</tt></dt><dd>The transport is available for <tt>recv()</tt> operations.
</dd><dt><tt>EPOLLOUT</tt></dt><dd>The transport is available for <tt>send()</tt> operations.
</dd><dt><tt>EPOLLET</tt></dt><dd>Sets the Edge Triggered behaviour for the transport.  The default behaviour is Level Triggered.</dd></dl></td>
</tr>
</table>

=== Return Value ===
On success, returns 0.  On error, returns -1 and <tt>errno</tt> is set appropriately.

=== Errors ===
<dl><dt><tt>EBADF</tt></dt><dd><tt>epfd</tt> is not a valid file descriptor or the transport is closed.
</dd><dt><tt>EEXIST</tt></dt><dd><tt>op</tt> was <tt>EPOLL_CTL_ADD</tt>, and a transport file descriptor is already in <tt>epfd</tt>.
</dd><dt><tt>EINVAL</tt></dt><dd><tt>epfd</tt> is not an <tt>epoll</tt> file descriptor, or the requested operation <tt>op</tt> is not supported by this interface.
</dd><dt><tt>ENOMEM</tt></dt><dd>There was insufficient memory to handle the requested <tt>op</tt> control operation.
</dd></dl>

=== Example ===
Wait for one incoming Edge Triggered event on the transport.

{{{
 int epfd = epoll_create (IP_MAX_MEMBERSHIPS);
 int retval = pgm_transport_epoll_ctl (transport, epfd, EPOLL_CTL_ADD, EPOLLIN | EPOLLET);
 struct epoll_event events[1];
 epoll_wait (efd, events, G_N_ELEMENTS(events), 1000 /* ms */);
}}}

=== See Also ===
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportSelectInfo pgm_transport_select_info()]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportPollInfo pgm_transport_poll_info()]</tt><br>
  * [OpenPgm2CReferenceTransport Transport] in OpenPGM C Reference.