#summary OpenPGM 2 : C Reference : pgm_sendv()
#labels Phase-Implementation

_Function_
=== Declaration ===
<pre>
#include <pgm/pgm.h>

[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmIoStatus PGMIOStatus] *pgm_sendv* (
	[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]`*` const      transport,
	const struct [OpenPgm2CReferencePgmIoVec pgm_iovec]`*`     vector,
	[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#guint guint]                       count,
	[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gboolean gboolean]                    is_one_apdu,
	[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gsize gsize]`*`                      bytes_written
);
</pre>

=== Purpose ===
Send a vector of application buffers as one Application Protocol Data Unit (APDU), or a vector of APDUs to the network.

=== Remarks ===
Network delivery of APDUs can be interspersed with ambient SPM and RDATA packets as necessary.

Calling with non-blocking transport set will return with <tt>PGM_IO_STATUS_WOULD_BLOCK</tt> or <tt>PGM_IO_STATUS_RATE_LIMITED</tt>. on any TPDU in the APDU failing to be immediately delivered.  The next call to <tt>pgm_sendv()</tt> MUST be with exactly the same parameters until transmission is complete.

=== Parameters ===

<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>transport</tt></td>
<td>The PGM transport object.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>vector</tt></td>
<td>Scatter/gather IO vector of data buffers.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>count</tt></td>
<td>Elements in <tt>vector</tt>.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>is_one_apdu</tt></td>
<td><tt>vector</tt> is one APDU if set <tt>TRUE</tt>, <tt>vector::iov_base</tt> is one APDU if set <tt>FALSE</tt>.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>bytes_written</tt></td>
<td>Pointer to store count of bytes written into <tt>buf</tt>.</td>
</tr>
</table>

=== Return Value ===
On success, returns <tt>PGM_IO_STATUS_NORMAL</tt>, on error returns <tt>PGM_IO_STATUS_ERROR</tt>, on reset due to unrecoverable data loss, returns <tt>PGM_IO_STATUS_RESET</tt>.  If the transport is marked non-blocking then <tt>PGM_IO_STATUS_WOULD_BLOCK</tt> is returned if the operation would block, if the block would be caused by the rate limiting engine then <tt>PGM_IO_STATUS_RATE_LIMITED</tt> is returned instead.

=== Example ===
Send one APDU covering two vector buffers.

{{{
 struct pgm_iovec vector[2];
 vector[0].iov_base = "hello ";
 vector[0].iov_len = strlen("hello ");
 vector[1].iov_base = "world!";
 vector[1].iov_len = strlen("world!") + 1;
 pgm_sendv (transport, vector, G_N_ELEMENTS(vector), TRUE, NULL);
}}}

Send two APDUs, one in English, one in Japanese.

{{{
 struct pgm_iovec vector[2];
 vector[0].iov_base = "hello world!";
 vector[0].iov_len = strlen("hello world!") + 1;
 vector[1].iov_base = "おはようございます";
 vector[1].iov_len = wcslen("おはようございます") + 1;  /* bytes not characters */
 pgm_sendv (transport, vector, G_N_ELEMENTS(vector), FALSE, NULL);
}}}

Send with non-blocking APDU with basic event detection.

{{{
 const char* buffer = "안녕하세요, 잘 지내 시죠?";
 struct pgm_iovec vector[2];
 PGMIOStatus status;
 gsize bytes_sent;
 vector[0].iov_base = buffer;
 vector[0].iov_len = wcslen(buffer) / 2;
 vector[1].iov_base = buffer + (wcslen(buffer) / 2);
 vector[1].iov_len = wcslen(buffer) - (wcslen(buffer) / 2);
 for(;;) {
   status = pgm_sendv (transport, vector, G_N_ELEMENTS(vector), TRUE, &bytes_sent);
   if (PGM_IO_STATUS_WOULD_BLOCK == status) {
     int n_fds = 3;
     struct pollfd fds[ n_fds ];
     memset (fds, 0, sizeof(fds));
     pgm_transport_poll_info (transport, fds, &n_fds, POLLIN);
     poll (fds, n_fds, -1 /* timeout=∞ */);
   } else {
     break;
   }
 }
}}}

=== See Also ===
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmIoStatus PGMIOStatus]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmSend pgm_send()]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmSendSkbv pgm_send_skbv()]</tt><br>
  * [OpenPgm2CReferenceTransport Transport] in OpenPGM C Reference.<br>
