#summary OpenPGM 2 : C Reference : Transport : pgm_transport_set_nak_data_retries()
#labels Phase-Implementation
#sidebar TOC2CReferenceTransport
_Function_
=== Declaration ===
<pre>
#include <pgm/pgm.h>

[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gboolean gboolean] *pgm_transport_set_nak_data_retries* (
	[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]`*`     transport,
	[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#guint guint]                cnt
	);
</pre>

=== Purpose ===
Set retries for DATA packets after NAK.

=== Remarks ===
NAK generation is cancelled upon the advancing of the receive window so as to exclude the matching sequence number of a pending or outstanding NAK, or <tt>NAK_DATA_RETRIES</tt>/<tt>NAK_NCF_RETRIES</tt> being exceeded.  Cancellation of NAK generation indicates unrecoverable data loss.

SmartPGM since release 4.0.1 uses a value of 50 retries but can auto-tune the setting to 20-100 depending on network conditions.  Microsoft PGM defaults to 10 retries.

=== Parameters ===
<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>transport</tt></td>
<td>The PGM transport object.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>cnt</tt></td>
<td>NAK packet retry count.</td>
</tr>
</table>


=== Return Value ===
On success, returns <tt>[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Standard-Macros.html#TRUE--CAPS TRUE]</tt>.  On invalid parameter, returns <tt>[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Standard-Macros.html#FALSE--CAPS FALSE]</tt>.

=== Example ===
Set <tt>NAK_DATA_RETRIES</tt> to 5.

{{{
 pgm_transport_set_nak_data_retries (transport, 5);
}}}

SmartPGM since release 4.0.1 uses a value of 50 retries.

{{{
 pgm_transport_set_nak_data_retries (transport, 50);
}}}

=== See Also ===
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportSetNakNcfRetries pgm_transport_set_nak_ncf_retries()]</tt><br>
  * [OpenPgm2CReferenceTransport Transport] in OpenPGM C Reference.

