#summary OpenPGM 3 : C Reference : Transport : pgm_transport_join_source_group()
#labels Phase-Implementation
#sidebar TOC3CReferenceTransport
_Function_
=== Declaration ===
<pre>
#include <pgm/pgm.h>

bool *pgm_transport_join_source_group* (
	[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]`*`            transport,
	struct group_source_req`*`     gsr,
	size_t                        len
);

bool *pgm_transport_leave_source_group* (
	[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]`*`            transport,
	struct group_source_req`*`     gsr,
	size_t                        len
);
</pre>

=== Purpose ===
The <tt>pgm_transport_join_source_group</tt> function joins a multicast source/group pair.

The <tt>pgm_transport_leave_source_group</tt> function leaves a previously joined multicast source/group pair.

=== Parameters ===

<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>transport</tt></td>
<td>The PGM transport object.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>gsr</tt></td>
<td>Multicast group and source with optional interface.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>len</tt></td>
<td>Length of <tt>gr</tt> in bytes.</td>
</tr>
</table>

=== Return Value ===
On success, <tt>true</tt> is returned.  On error, <tt>false</tt> is returned.

=== Example ===
Add group 239.192.0.2 from source 192.168.9.1 on default interface to transport.

{{{
 struct group_source_req gsr;
 memset (&sgr, 0, sizeof(gsr));
 ((struct sockaddr*)&gsr)->gsr_group.sa_family = AF_INET;
 ((struct sockaddr_in*)&gsr)->gsr_group.sin_addr.s_addr = inet_addr("239.192.0.2");
 ((struct sockaddr*)&gsr)->gsr_source.sa_family = AF_INET;
 ((struct sockaddr_in*)&gsr)->gsr_source.sin_addr.s_addr = inet_addr("192.168.9.1");
 pgm_transport_join_source_group (transport, &gsr, sizeof(gsr));
}}}

=== See Also ===
  * <tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmTransportJoinGroup pgm_transport_join_group()]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmTransportBlockSource pgm_transport_block_source()]</tt><br>
  * [OpenPgm3CReferenceTransport Transport] in OpenPGM C Reference.
