#summary OpenPGM : C Reference : pgm_create_ipv4_gsi()
#labels Phase-Implementation

_Function_
=== Declaration ===
<pre>
#include <pgm/pgm.h>

int *pgm_create_ipv4_gsi* (
	[OpenPgmCReferencePgmGsiT pgm_gsi_t]`*`    gsi
	);
</pre>

=== Purpose ===
Create a GSI based on IPv4 host address.

=== Remarks ===
A globally unique source identifier (GSI) is required for PGM to track the sending state of peers.  This function generates a GSI compatible with TIBCO Rendezvous which combines the four octets of the host IP address with a random number.  The random number is to help indicate if a process has been restarted as the transmit window is no longer valid.

The GSI is specified when creating a new PGM transport with <tt>[OpenPgmCReferencePgmTransportCreate pgm_transport_create()]</tt>.

=== Parameters ===

<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>gsi</tt></td>
<td>A pointer to the GSI provided by the application that the function will fill.</td>
</tr>
</table>


=== Return Value ===
On success, 0 is returned.  If <tt>gsi</tt> is invalid, <tt>-EINVAL</tt> is returned.

=== Example ===
{{{
 pgm_gsi_t gsi;
 pgm_create_ipv4_gsi (&gsi);
}}}

=== See Also ===
  * <tt>[OpenPgmCReferencePgmGsiT pgm_gsi_t]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgmCReferencePgmCreateMD5Gsi pgm_create_md5_gsi()]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgmCReferencePgmTransportCreate pgm_transport_create()]</tt><br>
  * [OpenPgmCReferenceTransport Transport] in OpenPGM C Reference.
