#summary OpenPGM 2 : C Reference : pgm_transport_set_peer_expiry()
#labels Phase-Implementation

_Function_
=== Declaration ===
<pre>
#include <pgm/pgm.h>

[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gboolean gboolean] *pgm_transport_set_peer_expiry* (
	[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]`*`     transport,
	[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#guint guint]                peer_expiry
	);
</pre>

=== Purpose ===
Set timeout for removing a dead peer.

=== Remarks ===
The absence of regular Source Path Messages (SPMs) indicates the failure of a network element or the PGM source.

TIBCO Rendezvous handles session timeouts based on <tt>HOST.STATUS</tt> broadcasts, independent of whether TRDP or PGM is used as the underlying network transport.  The host timeout interval is 300 seconds.

=== Parameters ===
<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>transport</tt></td>
<td>The PGM transport object.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>peer_expiry</tt></td>
<td>Timeout in microseconds.</td>
</tr>
</table>


=== Return Value ===
On success, returns <tt>[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Standard-Macros.html#TRUE--CAPS TRUE]</tt>.  On invalid parameter, returns <tt>[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Standard-Macros.html#FALSE--CAPS FALSE]</tt>.

=== Example ===
Set expiration timeout to five times the ambient SPM interval, in effect allowing up to five lost broadcasts.

{{{
 pgm_transport_set_peer_expiry (transport, 5*8192*1000);
}}}

Set expiration interval to 300 seconds.

{{{
 pgm_transport_set_peer_expiry (transport, 300*1000*1000);
}}}

=== See Also ===
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportSetAmbientSpm pgm_transport_set_ambient_spm()]</tt><br>
  * [OpenPgm2CReferenceTransport Transport] in OpenPGM C Reference.
