#summary OpenPGM 3 : C Reference : Transport : pgm_transport_set_txw_max_rte()
#labels Phase-Implementation
#sidebar TOC3CReferenceTransport
_Function_
=== Declaration ===
<pre>
#include <pgm/pgm.h>

bool *pgm_transport_set_txw_max_rte* (
	[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]`*`     transport,
	unsigned                max_rte
	);
</pre>

=== Purpose ===
Set the size of the send window size by data rate in bytes per second (<tt>[OpenPgmConceptsTxwMaxRte TXW_MAX_RTE]</tt>).

=== Remarks ===
The transmit window size can be set by count of sequence numbers using <tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmTransportSetTxwSqns pgm_transport_set_txw_sqns()]</tt>, or by maximum transmit rate (<tt>pgm_transport_set_txw_max_rte()</tt>) and a time interval (<tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmTransportSetTxwSecs pgm_transport_set_txw_secs()]</tt>).

Note that setting <tt>TXW_SQNS</tt> and <tt>TXW_MAX_RTE</tt> defines a window size in sequence numbers and installs a rate limiting engine.

Microsoft PGM default transmit rate limit is 56kbps or 7,000 bytes per second.

=== Parameters ===
<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>transport</tt></td>
<td>The PGM transport object.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>max_rte</tt></td>
<td>Maximum rate of bytes per second, 0 to disable.</td>
</tr>
</table>


=== Return Value ===
On success, returns <tt>true</tt>.  On invalid parameter, returns <tt>false</tt>.

=== Example ===
Create a 10 second reliability window with maximum data rate of 400,000 bytes per second.

{{{
 pgm_transport_set_txw_max_rte (transport, 400*1000);
 pgm_transport_set_txw_secs (transport, 10);
}}}

=== See Also ===
  * <tt>[OpenPgmConceptsTxwMaxRte TXW_MAX_RTE]</tt> in OpenPGM Concepts.<br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgmConceptsTxwSecs TXW_SECS]</tt> in OpenPGM Concepts.<br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmTransportSetRxwMaxRte pgm_transport_set_rxw_max_rte()]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmTransportSetTxwSqns pgm_transport_set_txw_sqns()]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm3CReferencePgmTransportSetTxwSecs pgm_transport_set_txw_secs()]</tt><br>
  * [OpenPgm3CReferenceTransport Transport] in OpenPGM C Reference.

