#summary OpenPGM 2 : C Reference : pgm_send()
#labels Phase-Implementation

_Function_
=== Declaration ===
<pre>
#include <pgm/pgm.h>

[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmIoStatus PGMIOStatus] *pgm_send* (
	[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]`*` const    transport,
	[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gconstpointer gconstpointer]     buf,
	[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gsize gsize]     count,
	[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gsize gsize]`*`     bytes_written
);
</pre>

=== Purpose ===
Send an Application Protocol Data Unit (APDU) to the network.

=== Remarks ===
The underlying transport handles packets sized to the maximum transmission protocol data unit (TPDU), when an application provides a larger APDU it will fragment the message into many packets which the receivers will reconstruct and present as a single data unit.

A would be blocked operation might have sent one or more transmission data units.  The context is saved internally but subsequent call should be either <tt>pgm_send()</tt> with the exact same parameters, or <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportDestroy pgm_transport_destroy()]</tt>.  Put another way: in a multi-threaded application a locking mechanism should be implemented to prevent another thread trying to send a different application data unit.

=== Parameters ===

<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>transport</tt></td>
<td>The PGM transport object.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>buf</tt></td>
<td>Data buffer to fill.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>count</tt></td>
<td>Length of <tt>buf</tt> in bytes.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>bytes_written</tt></td>
<td>Pointer to store count of bytes written from <tt>buf</tt>.</td>
</tr>
</table>

=== Return Value ===
On success, returns <tt>PGM_IO_STATUS_NORMAL</tt>, on error returns <tt>PGM_IO_STATUS_ERROR</tt>, on reset due to unrecoverable data loss, returns <tt>PGM_IO_STATUS_RESET</tt>.  If the transport is marked non-blocking then <tt>PGM_IO_STATUS_AGAIN</tt> is returned if the operation would block, if the block would be caused by the rate limiting engine then <tt>PGM_IO_STATUS_AGAIN2</tt> is returned instead.

=== Example ===
Send the traditional Hello world.

{{{
 gchar* s = "hello world!";
 gsize bytes_written;
 pgm_send (transport, s, strlen(s) + 1, &bytes_written);
}}}

Basic non-blocking send.

{{{
 gchar* s = "hello world!";
 size_t len = strlen (s) + 1;
 PGMIOStatus status;
 do {
   status = pgm_send (transport, s, len, NULL);
 } while (PGM_IO_STATUS_AGAIN == status ||
          PGM_IO_STATUS_AGAIN2 == status);
}}}

=== See Also ===
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportT pgm_transport_t]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmSendv pgm_sendv()]</tt><br>
  * [OpenPgm2CReferenceTransport Transport] in OpenPGM C Reference.<br>
