'''Topics in Alphabetical Order'''

<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Packet</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/ODATA|ODATA]]</tt></td>
<td>Original data packet.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/RDATA|RDATA]]</tt></td>
<td>Repair data packet.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/NAK|NAK]]</tt></td>
<td>Negative acknowledgement.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/NNAK|NNAK]]</tt></td>
<td>N-NAK or null negative acknowledgement.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/NCF|NCF]]</tt></td>
<td>NAK confirmation.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/SPM|SPM]]</tt></td>
<td>Source path message.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/SPMR|SPMR]]</tt></td>
<td>SPM-Request.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/POLL|POLL]]</tt></td>
<td>Poll request.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/POLR|POLR]]</tt></td>
<td>Poll response.</td>
</tr>
</table>


<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Source Path Messages|IHB_MIN]]</tt></td>
<td>Minimum interval of <tt>IHB_TMR</tt>.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Source Path Messages|IHB_MAX]]</tt></td>
<td>Maximum interval of <tt>IHB_TMR</tt>.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Source Path Messages|IHB_TMR]]</tt></td>
<td>Inter-data-packet heartbeat timer.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Negative Acknowledgements|NAK_DATA_RETRIES]]</tt></td>
<td>Maximum NAK requests while waiting for data.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Negative Acknowledgements|NAK_NCF_RETRIES]]</tt></td>
<td>Maximum NAK requests while waiting for a matching NCF.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Negative Acknowledgements|NAK_BO_IVL]]</tt></td>
<td>Maximum time period for backing off NAK transmission.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Negative Acknowledgements|NAK_ELIM_IVL]]</tt></td>
<td>Time period for network elements to discarding duplicate NAK requests.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Negative Acknowledgements|NAK_RB_IVL]]</tt></td>
<td>Random time period over <tt>NAK_BO_IVL</tt> whilst listening for matching NCFs or NAKs.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Negative Acknowledgements|NAK_RPT_IVL]]</tt></td>
<td>Time period whilst listening for matching NCF before recommencing NAK generation.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Negative Acknowledgements|NAK_RDATA_IVL]]</tt></td>
<td>Time period whilst listening for data before recommencing NAK generation.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Negative Acknowledgements|NAK_TSI]]</tt></td>
<td><tt>OD_TSI</tt> of the ODATA packet for which a repair is requested.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Negative Acknowledgements|NAK_SQN]]</tt></td>
<td><tt>OD_SQN</tt> of the ODATA packet for which a repair is requested.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Negative Acknowledgements|NAK_SRC]]</tt></td>
<td>The unicast NLA of the original source of the missing ODATA.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Negative Acknowledgements|NAK_GRP]]</tt></td>
<td>The multicast group NLA.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Negative Acknowledgements|NNAK_TSI]]</tt></td>
<td><tt>NAK_TSI</tt> of the corresponding re-redirected NAK.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Negative Acknowledgements|NNAK_SQN]]</tt></td>
<td><tt>NAK_SQN</tt> of the corresponding re-redirected NAK.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Negative Acknowledgements|NNAK_SRC]]</tt></td>
<td><tt>NAK_SRC</tt> of the corresponding re-redirected NAK.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Negative Acknowledgements|NNAK_GRP]]</tt></td>
<td><tt>NAK_GRP</tt> of the corresponding re-redirected NAK.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Negative Acknowledgements|NCF_TSI]]</tt></td>
<td><tt>NAK_TSI</tt> of the NAK being confirmed.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Negative Acknowledgements|NCF_SQN]]</tt></td>
<td><tt>NAK_SQN</tt> of the NAK being confirmed.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Negative Acknowledgements|NCF_SRC]]</tt></td>
<td><tt>NAK_SRC</tt> of the NAK being confirmed.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Negative Acknowledgements|NCF_GRP]]</tt></td>
<td><tt>NAK_GRP</tt> of the NAK being confirmed.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Data Packets|OD_TSI]]</tt></td>
<td>The globally unique source-assigned TSI.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Data Packets|OD_TRAIL]]</tt></td>
<td>The trailing (or left) edge of the source's transmit window (<tt>TXW_TRAIL</tt>).</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Data Packets|OD_SQN]]</tt></td>
<td>A sequence number assigned sequentially by the source in unit increments and scoped by <tt>OD_TSI</tt>.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Option Encodings|OPT_LENGTH]]</tt></td>
<td>Option's Length.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Option Encodings|OPT_FRAGMENT]]</tt></td>
<td>Fragmentation.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Option Encodings|OPT_JOIN]]</tt></td>
<td>Late Joining.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Option Encodings|OPT_REDIRECT]]</tt></td>
<td>Redirect.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Option Encodings|OPT_SYN]]</tt></td>
<td>Synchronisation.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Option Encodings|OPT_FIN]]</tt></td>
<td>Session termination.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Option Encodings|OPT_RST]]</tt></td>
<td>Session reset.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Option Encodings|OPT_PARITY_PRM]]</tt></td>
<td>Forward Error Correction Parameters.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Option Encodings|OPT_PARITY_GRP]]</tt></td>
<td>Forward Error Correction Group Number.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Option Encodings|OPT_CURR_TGSIZE]]</tt></td>
<td>Forward Error Correction Group Size.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Option Encodings|OPT_CR]]</tt></td>
<td>Congestion Report.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Option Encodings|OPT_CRQST]]</tt></td>
<td>Congestion Report Request.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Option Encodings|OPT_NAK_BO_IVL]]</tt></td>
<td>NAK Back-Off Interval.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Option Encodings|OPT_NAK_BO_RNG]]</tt></td>
<td>NAK Back-off Range.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Option Encodings|OPT_NBR_UNREACH]]</tt></td>
<td>Neighbour Unreachable.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Option Encodings|OPT_PATH_NLA]]</tt></td>
<td>Path NLA.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Option Encodings|OPT_INVALID]]</tt></td>
<td>Option invalidated.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Data Packets|RD_TSI]]</tt></td>
<td><tt>OD_TSI</tt> of the ODATA package for which this is a repair.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Data Packets|RD_TRAIL]]</tt></td>
<td>The trailing (or left) edge of the source's transmit window (<tt>TXW_TRAIL</tt>).</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Data Packets|RD_SQN]]</tt></td>
<td><tt>OD_SQN</tt> of the ODATA packet for which this is a repair.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Receive Window|RXW_LEAD]]</tt></td>
<td>The leading (or right) edge of the receive window.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Receive Window|RXW_TRAIL]]</tt></td>
<td>The trailing (or left) edge of the receive window.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Receive Window|RXW_TRAIL_INIT]]</tt></td>
<td>Initial trailing edge of the receive window to restrict repair requests.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Source Path Messages|SPM_TSI]]</tt></td>
<td>The source-assigned TSI for the session.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Source Path Messages|SPM_SQN]]</tt></td>
<td>A sequence number assigned sequentially by the source in unit increments and scoped by <tt>SPM_TSI</tt>.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Source Path Messages|SPM_TRAIL]]</tt></td>
<td>The trailing (or left) edge of the source's transmit window (<tt>TXW_TRAIL</tt>).</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Source Path Messages|SPM_LEAD]]</tt></td>
<td>The leading (or right) edge of the source's transmit window (<tt>TXW_LEAD</tt>).</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Source Path Messages|SPM_PATH]]</tt></td>
<td>The network-layer address (NLA) of the interface on the PGM network element on which the SPM is forwarded.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Transit Window|TXW_LEAD]]</tt></td>
<td>The leading (or right) edge of the transmit window.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/TXW_MAX_RTE|TXW_MAX_RTE]]</tt></td>
<td>The maximum transmit rate in bytes/second of a source.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/TXW_SECS|TXW_SECS]]</tt></td>
<td>The amount of transmitted data in seconds a source retains for repair.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/TXW_SQNS|TXW_SQNS]]</tt></td>
<td>The size of the transmit window in sequence numbers.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>[[OpenPGM Concepts/Transit Window|TXW_TRAIL]]</tt></td>
<td>The trailing (or left) edge of the transmit window.</td>
</tr>
</table>

