#summary OpenPGM 2 : C Reference : Transport : pgm_gsi_create_from_addr()
#labels Phase-Implementation
#sidebar TOC2CReferenceTransport
_Function_
=== Declaration ===
<pre>
#include <pgm/pgm.h>

[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Basic-Types.html#gboolean gboolean] *pgm_gsi_create_from_addr* (
	[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmGsiT pgm_gsi_t]`*`    gsi,
	[http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Error-Reporting.html#GError GError]`*``*`     error
	);
</pre>

=== Purpose ===
Create a GSI based on the nodes IPv4 address.

=== Remarks ===
A globally unique source identifier (GSI) is required for PGM to track the sending state of peers.  This function generates a GSI compatible with TIBCO Rendezvous which combines the four octets of the host IP address with a random number.  The random number is to help indicate if a process has been restarted as the transmit window is no longer valid.

The GSI is specified when creating a new PGM transport with <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportCreate pgm_transport_create()]</tt>.

=== Parameters ===

<table border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0">
<tr>
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><tt>gsi</tt></td>
<td>A pointer to the GSI provided by the application that the function will fill.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td><tt>error</tt></td>
<td>a return location for a [http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Error-Reporting.html#GError GError], or [http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Standard-Macros.html#NULL--CAPS NULL].</td>
</tr>
</table>

=== Return Value ===
On success, [http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Standard-Macros.html#TRUE--CAPS TRUE] is returned.  On error, [http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Standard-Macros.html#FALSE--CAPS FALSE] is returned.  If <tt>error</tt> is provided it may be set detailing the fault.

=== Example ===
Basic usage without error handling.

{{{
 pgm_gsi_t gsi;
 pgm_gsi_create_from_addr (&gsi, NULL);
}}}

Display an error message detailing failure.

{{{
 pgm_gsi_t gsi;
 GError *err = NULL;
 if (!pgm_gsi_create_from_addr (&gsi, &err)) {
   g_message ("GSI failed: %s", err->message);
   g_error_free (err);
   return EXIT_FAILURE;
 }
}}}

=== See Also ===
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmGsiT pgm_gsi_t]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmGsiCreateFromHostname pgm_gsi_create_from_hostname()]</tt><br>
  * <tt>[OpenPgm2CReferencePgmTransportCreate pgm_transport_create()]</tt><br>
  * [OpenPgm2CReferenceTransport Transport] in OpenPGM C Reference.<br>
  * [http://library.gnome.org/devel/glib/stable/glib-Error-Reporting.html GLib Error Reporting].
